# community-facilitators-program

This repository contains context, resources and curriculum for all modules developed under The Carpentries Facilitators Program.

## Context

In 2019, Kari Jordan, Tracy Teal, Sher! Hurt and Serah Rono constituted a [Core Team](https://carpentries.org/team/) working group that discussed how to support Carpentries community members through conflict. This working group identified the need to develop a task force that would come up with recommendations for dealing with incidents that come up in our community spaces and whose review and resolution fall outside the mandate of The Carpentries Code of Conduct (CoC) committee (see [task force charter](https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/blob/master/2019/incidents-outside-cocc/2019-07-incidents-outside-cocc-charter.md)). One of the key recommendations from this Task Force was [the institution of a Code of Conduct Facilitators Program to serve as an added layer of support for our community before incidents are reported to the Code of Conduct Committee (CoCc)](https://github.com/carpentries/task-forces/blob/master/2019/incidents-outside-cocc/2019-09-19-cocc-taskforce-summary-recommendations.md#recommendation-2-volunteer-code-of-conduct-facilitators). Details about how the Code of Conduct Facilitators Program were first proposed by Malvika Sharan, the 2020 Code of Conduct chair, in Q1 2019. In summary, while maintaining the role of the CoCc as a CoC enforcement body, Code of Conduct Facilitators would actively monitor Carpentries online spaces and physical meetings and share potentially negative behaviours or otherwise certify that the community is functioning as expected. 

In thinking about what the term _facilitation_ as a verb in our community, we also realised there existed more opportunities for community facilitation, by our existing community and for our growing community, across the board. With this in mind, we decided to expand on the original mandate of Code of Conduct Facilitators in The Carpentries to include other necessary elements of facilitation that we see as necessary for the health and continuance of an established community like The Carpentries. This, we believe, will help community members see themselves as Facilitators in different ways that are fulfilling, and open up multiple pathways for interested community members to build trust and work with community members in these different facilitation roles

In Summary, Community Facilitators would be people who would be empowered to advocate for others in the community and guide community members as they navigate various intricacies of The Carpentries global community.

